CHANGE DETECTION ON HYPERSPECTRAL IMAGERY
1
 Name
USN
Naveen Ballari
01FE20BCS190
Bharath A Koli
01FE20BCS199
Shravan Nayak
01FE20BCS174
Swaroop Madiwalar
01FE21BCS424
Team Number: S2

Team Members:








Guide : Ms. Indira Bidari
1

Contents
2

Introduction
Problem Statement
Objectives
Dataset Details
System design 
Architecture Deployed 
Result 


2

1.	Introduction

3
What are Remote Sensing Images?

Remote sensing is the main data source of earth monitoring.

Process of detecting and monitoring the physical characteristics of an area by measuring its reflected and emitted radiation at a distance.

Remote sensing images are widely used in change detection process such as disaster assessment, urban planning, environment pollution monitoring  etc..

3

4
Change detection technology makes it easier and faster to observe the world. Identifying differences in the  object or phenomenon by observing at different times.

Automatic change detection takes sequential images of the same location as inputs and produces a binary map which marks the changes.


What is Change Detection ?
4

5
Semantic segmentation Change detection with U-net architecture on Hyperspectral Imagery
     2.	Problem Statement
5
5

3.	Objectives 

6
Apply pre-processing techniques to improve the relevant information of the image through reducing the noise and preserving the region of interest  of hyperspectral images.
Apply semantic segmentation technique to label each pixel in the hyperspectral dataset. Which recognises a collection of pixels forming distinct categories in the image.
To detect meaningful and accurate locations of change in  information from hyperspectral dataset.
Extract information with least error possible and finally conclude changes occurred in hyperspectral images.


6

  4. Dataset details
   Dataset Source / Features/ Generation : 

Dataset is collected from Indian Pine Site 3 AVIRIS hyperspectral dataset
Dataset consists of 145x145 pixels and 224 spectral reflectance bands in the wavelength range 0.4–2.5 10^(-6) meters.
The Indian Pines scene contains two-thirds agriculture, and one-third forest or other natural perennial vegetation. 
Dataset includes ground photos of several fields in mat format. 















				

							
7
Fig. a. Example of dataset
7

8
   5. System Design
Fig.b Represents the system design of the model. bitemporal images of the same place is fed into the system and feature maps of that images is created.
These feature maps along with Ground truth is fed into change detection model and a final changed feature map is generated.

Fig. b. System design
8

9
9
Standard U-Net Architecture
standard U-Net architecture is designed based in the Convolutional Neural Network.
It consists of expanding path and contracting path.
The contracting path consists of many convolutional layers and a max pooling layer.
the expanding path consists of upsampling blocks followed by convolutional blocks.
standard U-Net architecture can be modified using by changing the number of layers to improve performance
   6. Architecture Deployed
Fig. c.Standard U-net architecture
9

10
      Attention U-Net
Attention U-Net improves U-Net by incorporating attention mechanism which allows model to focus more on important features.
The Attention U-Net adds attention gates to the skip connections, which allow the model to selectively weigh the importance of the features being passed from the encoder to the decoder.
The attention mechanism in Attention U-Net is added to the skip connections between the encoder and decoder networks. 
Fig. d. Resnet architecture
10

11
   7. Results
   img 1.1
   img 1.2
Results from standard U-Net architecture
   img 1.3
Model
Precision
Recall
F1_score
Kappa
Standard Unet
0.847
0.987
0.911
0.902
Attention Unet
0.885
0.974
0.927
0.920
As we observed, img 1.1 represents the actual ground truth of the input data
image 1.2 is obtained by semantic segmentation of the images. 
In the segmented images overlapped with ground truth to detect the actual change in the input image.


11

 """
    Split the data into training, validation, and test sets.

    Parameters:
        -- X: array-like, shape (n_samples, n_features)
            The feature data.
        -- y: array-like, shape (n_samples,)
            The target labels.
        -- test_ratio: float, optional (default=0.1)
            The proportion of samples to allocate to the test set.
        -- validation_ratio: float, optional (default=0.1)
            The proportion of samples to allocate to the validation set.

    Returns:
        -- X_train: array-like, shape (n_train_samples, n_features)
            The feature data for the training set.
        -- X_val: array-like, shape (n_val_samples, n_features)
            The feature data for the validation set.
        -- X_test: array-like, shape (n_test_samples, n_features)
            The feature data for the test set.
        -- y_train: array-like, shape (n_train_samples,)
            The target labels for the training set.
        -- y_val: array-like, shape (n_val_samples,)
            The target labels for the validation set.
        -- y_test: array-like, shape (n_test_samples,)
            The target labels for the test set.
    """

12
12

 
TEAM S2
13
Thank
 You!
